The English lexical sample task is the result of a Coordinated Effort from Adam
Kilgarriff at Brighton and UPenn.  The pre-release version of WordNet 1.7 from
Princeton was used as the sense inventory.  There was an opportunity
for revision of the senses in the fall, but for the most part this was
done prior to the bulk of the tagging effort.

Brighton provided the training/testing data for the nouns and adjectives.

Penn provided the training/testing data for the verbs in the lexical sample
English task, and the testing data for the all-words task.  The lexical
sample verbs were tagged by Lauren Delfs and Susanne Wolff, with Christiane
Fellbaum as an arbitrator.  The all words data was tagged by Lauren Delfs
and Kate Forbes, with Susanne Wolff and Christiane Fellbaum both as
arbitrators.   Lauren and Kate are both Linguistics students, and Susanne
is a consultant.  All of the taggers used a sense tagging interface
implemented by Joseph Rosenzweig and maintained by Scott Cotton.  Well over
1000 person hours went into the tagging tasks.

The all words text comes from Penn Treebank II Wall Street Journal articles.
(Copyright )  1996-2000 Linguistic Data Consortium, University of
Pennsylvania.  All rights reserved.)  The lexical sample verb tagging data
also came primarily from the Wall Street Journal data in Penn Treebank II.
However, where that did not supply enough samples to approximate
75+15*senses per verb, we supplemented with British National Corpus
instances.  We did not find sentences for every sense of every word we
tagged.  We also sometimes found sentences for which none of the available
senses were appropriate, and they are tagged with NT for Not There, but not
included in the training or test data.

The nouns, adjectives and verbs for the lexical sample task were also
grouped at Penn, with an attempt to be explicit about the criteria for each
grouping.  These criteria included differences in semantic classes of
arguments, differences in the number and type of arguments, whether or not
something is created or there is a shared result, whether an action is
abstract vs.  concrete or actual vs. mental, whether there is a specialized
subject domain, etc.  All of the verbs were grouped by two or more people
with differences being reconciled.  The nouns and adjectives were grouped
by Lauren Delfs, and since WordNet does not have groups for nouns and
adjectives were done quite independently of WN.  The verb groupers included
Scott Cotton, Lauren Delfs, Hoa Trang Dang, Christiane Fellbaum, Martha
Palmer, Beth Randall and Susanne Wolff.  In some cases the groupings of the
verbs are identical to the original WordNet groupings, in some cases they
are quite different.  Some verbs were extremely difficult to group, and no
one was happy with the result.

These groupings or the original WN groupings are available for use as
coarse-grained senses for scoring purposes.

The following files are contained in the Training data:

README:                                 this file
eng-lexical-sample.training.xml:        The lexical sample training data
eng-lexical-sample.training.key:        separate table of answers
lexical-sample.dtd:                     The dtd -- with necesasry character entities
sense-key2mnemonic.map:                 Mnemonics for the n,adj,adv sensees.
verb-groups/*:                          Groupings for the verbs

The prerelease of WordNet1.7 is our sense inventory, the senseids in the .xml
document and answer key are WordNet sense keys, with any apostrophes (') in
the lemma portion of the sense key replaced with a dash (-).


Martha Palmer, Adam Kilgarriff, Christiane Fellbaum, Scott Cotton, ...
